Adds documentation for the Data Prepper geoip processor and geoip_service extension (#6772)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/geoip.md

---
layout: default
title: geoip
parent: Processors
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 54
---

# geoip

> The `geoip` processor enriches events with geographic information from IP addresses contained inside the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `geoip` processor enriches events with geographic information extracted from IP addresses contained in the events.
```

By default, Data Prepper uses the [MaxMind GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data) geolocation database.
Data Prepper administrators can configure the databases using the [`geoip_service`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/managing-data-prepper/extensions/geoip_service) extension configuration.

## Usage

> You configure the `geoip` processor to work on entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the `geoip` processor to work on entries.
```

> The minimal configuration requires at least one entry and each entry needs a source field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimal configuration requires at least one entry, and each entry needs a source field.
```

> The minimal configuration requires at least one entry and each entry needs a source field.

Reviewer: Instead of "a source field", "one source field" or "at least one source field"?

Reviewer 2: at least one source field.

The following configuration extracts all available geolocation data from the IP address provided in the field named `clientip`.
It will write the geolocation data to a new field named `geo`, the default source when none is configured:

```
my-pipeline:
  processor:
    - geoip:
        entries:
          - source: clientip
```

> The following example excludes Autonomous System Numbers (ASN) fields and puts the geolocation data into a field named `clientlocation`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example excludes Autonomous System Number (ASN) fields and puts the geolocation data into a field named `clientlocation`:
```

```
my-pipeline:
  processor:
    - geoip:
        entries:
          - source: clientip
            target: clientlocation
            include_fields: [asn, asn_organization, network]
```

## Configuration

You can use the following options to configure the `geoip` processor.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`entries` | Yes | [entry](#entry) list | The list of entries marked for enrichment.
`geoip_when` | No | String | Specifies under what condition the `geoip` processor should perform matching. Default is no condition.
`tags_on_no_valid_ip` | No | String | The tags to add to the event metadata if the source field is not a valid IP address. This includes the localhost IP address.
`tags_on_ip_not_found` | No | String | The tags to add to the event metadata if the `geoip` processor is unable to find a location for the IP address.

> `tags_on_engine_failure` | No | String | The tags to add to the event metadata if the `geoip` processor is unable to enrich an event due an engine failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tags_on_engine_failure` | No | String | The tags to add to the event metadata if the `geoip` processor is unable to enrich an event due to an engine failure.
```

## entry

The following parameters allow you to configure a single geolocation entry. Each entry corresponds to a single IP address.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `source` | Yes | String | The key of the source field which has the IP address to geolocate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`source` | Yes | String | The key of the source field containing the IP address to geolocate.
```

> `target` | No | String | The key of the target field to save the geolocation data. Default is `geo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`target` | No | String | The key of the target field in which to save the geolocation data. Default is `geo`.
```

`include_fields` | No | String list | The list of geolocation fields to include in the `target` object. By default, this is all the fields provided by the configured databases.

> `exclude_fields` | No | String list | The list of geolocation fields to exclude in the `target` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`exclude_fields` | No | String list | The list of geolocation fields to exclude from the `target` object.
```
